Dear students,

Now the first exam was done.

We understand your frustration and various feelings about the exam. We are also quite sure that most of you have done quite well in the course and gained fundamental understanding in computer science; the exam results would be better than you expected. The purpose of the exam is not to fail you. It is to evaluate your understanding and skills. So, we will not just look at your final numbers, correct results. Instead, we will try to follow your methods to solve the questions and evaluate your knowledge. So, if you have provided us with clues/details about it, you will get more points than you expected.

This is a very difficult period. It is not just for our students. It is the same experience for us instructors. During the exam, we were in the same messy and stressed: we did our best to quickly answer any possible questions from students and provided the support. If we were able to choose, we would not have chosen this online exam form. The examination in the traditional classroom would be much easier to manage for both students and teachers, and it would save much of our time.

This situation is not unique at HKR. I have a daughter studying at Lund University. She had her maths online examination on the same day, at my home. Lund University uses the lockdown browser technique in the exam. Before the exam starts, each student should login, let the web camera to take his/her photo, then the web camera takes a photo of his/her ID card (passport) to validate the person. After that, the student should use the web camera to take the video of the surrounding environment. When everything is ok, the exam starts. The lockdown browser locks the whole screen so that a student can only view the exam questions, no other activities are allowed. The system will use the web camera to monitor the student every 5 seconds. If the Internet connection is lost for longer than 5 seconds, the examination becomes invalid. At the end, the student should let the web camera to take the photos of all papers. After that, the student should scan the paper and upload it for grading. My daughter experienced the same/similar as experienced: stressed and worried (for lost connection).

The online course delivery causes lot of extra time and frustration for both  students and teachers. You do not meet your dear classmates and cannot discuss questions or have social engagement face to face. We do not know whether you have formed study groups or found the study buddies. We tried to help you. We sit in the evening or our spare time before the computer to try to support you instantly in this special situation. But due to various reasons, our words or our help/support may not reach you. We also take your feedback/suggestions seriously. For example, after we have balanced on the advantage and disadvantage, we agreed that you could navigate the quiz questions (instead of locking the answered questions) days before the exam. We think that good communications would help for a successful course delivery, and students succeed in the course.

Studying in computer science is difficult. At the same time, it is exciting and motivating. We are in the information society and computer has been very important tool and contribution to the society development. The good job market is waiting for you. We wish that you should never give up in your study:   learn together, collaborate, motivate each other, and have fun together. Finally, please do not forget that your instructors are there to provide you with help/support, although students should take their own responsibility in their learning process.

good luck!

/Eric